# 2. Play sequence

Prior to the start of play, players should agree upon the life total for the game. Each player will start with the same life total, which can be raised above its starting value. Suggested values are:

- 20 Life = a short game
- 30 Life = an average game
- 40 Life = a slightly longer-than-average game

The player who plays first in the initial Duel will be chosen randomly via coin flip, dice toss, et cetera. After that the player who won the last duel shall make the first play in the subsequent Duel.

Each player must shuffle their cards and set them to the side. This will compose the Draw pile.

At the beginning of play, each player will draw five cards from their Draw pile. This comprises the player's hand

## 2.1 The Duel

During the Duel, players take turns playing cards one at a time. With each card one plays they want to trump their opponent’s last card by playing a card with either a higher rank (the number on the top left) or a better rune (the symbol just below that number).

1. Trumping with rank: if your card’s rank is higher than your opponent’s card, you have trumped.
2. Trumping with runes: the easiest way to determine trump via rune is to look at their Roman numerals. Each numeral trumps the one before it. So II beats I, III beats II, IV beats III, V beats IV, and I beat V.

If a player has a card in their hand that can trump, they must play it. Play during the Duel continues until one player cannot trump the other. At this point the player who played last is considered the winner of the duel. If both players have emptied their hands, the player who played the last card is considered the winner of the Duel. At the end of the Duel, whoever loses takes one damage for each card in his hand. Additionally, whoever wins the Duel phase gets to go first on the next duel phase.

## 2.3 The Battle Line

During the Duel, there is a summons number set for that round. That number tells you the highest rank of cards that can go onto the battle line. At the start of the game, the summons number is 3. That means that anything you play during the Duel with a rank of 3 or less can go onto the battle line after the duel.

Once the Duel is complete, anything that can go into play from both players gets shuffled together, and anything that has too high of a rank is discarded into its owner’s discard pile. Then, the shuffled cards go into play one at a time on the battle line. The battle line starts from the first player's left side with slot 1 and continues from there to the right. The opposing player's battle line will start from the right and continue to the left. Creatures must be played in the first available slot, unless some effect changes this (e.g. the Charge ability).

If a creature or warlord is being played, it goes onto the battle line for the player that played that card during the Duel phase. Any effect that occurs when a creature enters play will immediately occur when that creature is placed on the battle line. These effects must be resolved before the next creature is played.

If an artifact is being played, there must be a target creature for the artifact. Artifacts must be played on the first available creature that does not have an artifact attached on that player's battle line (with one exception - see section 4.1, Standard Abilities > Carrot Seeker) . If there isn't a target creature available for the artifact, the artifact will go to the holding area to be played on a later turn.

If a spell is being played, there must be a valid target for the spell. If there is not, it goes to the holding area to be played on a later turn.

If there are items in a player’s holding area that may be played this round, these are placed into play following the play of cards from that round’s Duel. All items in the holding area remain there until they are played and are not re-shuffled into the player's deck until such time as they are played and discarded.

Once all cards are played or sent to the holding area, all the creatures in play start combat. Each of them does damage to the creature across from it and simultaneously takes damage in return from that same creature, starting with slot 1 on the Battle Line. Any effects that occur during attack are resolved at this time as well (such as Breakthrough). If a creature is unopposed, it will do damage directly to its opponent’s life total. If a creature's life is reduced to zero, they are immediately removed from the Battle Line and discarded. Any artifacts that were attached to a creature being discarded are also discarded with it. If a creature attacks twice per round, then the second attack will be resolved after the first full attack round is resolved. If said creature is killed during the initial combat a second attack will not be resolved. Damage to creatures is persistent between rounds. Any creature that is still on the Battle Line after combat remains there for subsequent rounds until it is killed.

Immediately following combat any post-combat effects occur and are resolved, such as Regeneration and Fade. At this time if any empty spaces in the Battle Line exist, all creatures on the battle line are shifted to fill the spaces

### End of Combat

At the end of combat, each player may discard up to one card from their hand. All cards in a player's discard pile are then shuffled with their deck. At this time the player draws enough cards to return their hand to five cards. The summons number is incremented by one. The players return to the Duel phase.