# 1. Deck building

Each player shall have one deck of cards. A deck shall be composed of two squads. Each squad shall be composed of the following distribution of cards:

- 1 Warlord
- 2 bonus cards, dependent on Warlord type (see below)
- 5 Creatures
- 1 Artifact
- 1 Spell

### Warlord Bonus

- Fighter - 2 creatures
- Thief - 2 artifacts
- Mage - 2 spells

### Squad breakdown, including Warlord Bonus

- 1 Fighter - 7 Creatures, 1 Artifact, 1 Spell
- 1 Thief - 5 creatures, 3 Artifacts, 1 Spell
- 1 Mage - 5 Creatures, 1 Artifact, 3 Spells

A squad may only contain 1 Warlord. All cards in a squad must come from the same faction. A player may choose two squads from the same faction if they wish. A player may use the same warlord for each of their squads if they wish. A player may have multiple copies of the same creature in their squad if they wish.

### Unaligned Cards

If a player wishes they may include unaligned cards (denoted by their gray background and lack of faction symbol) in their play deck. There may be only one copy of each unaligned card in any given deck.

## 1.1 Other Gameplay Pieces

Many of the cards require the random selection of an enemy’s creatures or artifacts. To facilitate this, it is recommended that each player have a full set of polyhedral dice, including one each of D4, D6, D8, D10, D12, and D20.

It is also recommended that the players have a separate D10 to be used as the rank counter for the rounds.

Lastly, it is recommended that each player have some sort of counters or some other method of tracking damage dealt to their creatures during combat.