# 4. Specific card and creature abilities defined

## 4.1 Standard Abilities

### Ambush

When a card bearing this ability comes into play it deals its Ambush value in damage to the last creature on the opponent’s battle line. If the opponent has no creatures on their battle line then Ambush has no effect.

### Armor

Armor blocks damage equal to the Armor value. For example, if a creature has Armor 2 then it is dealt 2 less damage during the combat phase. If a creature’s Armor value is higher than its attacker’s Attack value, it receives no damage.

### Ascend

When a creature with Ascend is in play the player heals 2 life at the end of each turn.

### Assassin

A creature with Assassin gains its Assassin value in Attack when dealing damage to an opposing player.

### Bastion

A creature with Bastion can only take damage once each turn.

### Beastmaster

A warlord with Beastmaster gains +1 Attack and +1 Armor for each Beast ally on the Battle Line.

### Berserk

A creature with Berserk gains +1 Attack for each damage it takes.

### Bolt

If a creature with Bolt is in play, at the beginning of each turn deal 2 damage to a random enemy creature.

### Breakthrough

When a creature with Breakthrough attacks it deals its Breakthrough value in damage to the opponent, regardless of whether there is an opposing enemy creature. If there is no opposing enemy creature, it deals its Breakthrough damage in addition to its normal damage to the opponent. If a creature with Breakthrough also has Fury, it deals its Breakthrough damage twice.

### Burst

When a card bearing this ability comes into play it deals its Burst value in damage to every creature on the opponent’s battle line. If the opponent has no creatures on their battle line then Burst has no effect.

### Carrot Seeker

When a creature with Carrot Seeker is in play, if the Vegetable Artifact (The Carrot of Power) is put into play by the controller of the Carrot Seeker it must be played on the Carrot Seeker, regardless of whether it is the first creature on the Battle Line. (see 4.2, Special Rules > The Omega Rabbit).

### Charge

When a creature with Charge comes into play it moves to the front of the Battle Line and all other allied creatures are shifted down by one slot.

### Cleansing Fire

When a creature with Cleansing Fire is summoned it deals 3 damage to the front enemy on the opponent’s Battle Line.

### Curse

When a creature with Curse is in play it deals 2 damage to the strongest enemy each turn.

### Cross Over

When an allied creature is destroyed a creature with Cross Over deals 3 damage to the enemy that is opposite to it.

### Dodge

When a creature with Dodge is in play it cannot be damaged by enemy creatures that have an Attack value of 5 or more.

### Dominate

A creature with the Dominate ability gains its Dominate value in Armor against wounded enemies.

### Fade

When a creature bearing Fade is in play it moves to the back of the Battle Line at the end of each turn. If more than one creature in the Battle Line has Fade the abilities are processed in the order of the Battle Line.

### Fury

A creature with the Fury ability attacks twice each turn. Its first attack is processed normally during the Battle phase. Once all creatures have attacked during the Battle phase, any creatures with Fury that are still on the Battle Line must attack a second time.

### Gatekeeper

When three Gatekeeper allies are in play, they are immediately removed and replaced with the Endless Serpent. (See 4.2, Special Rules > The Endless Serpent).

### Heal

When a creature bears the Heal ability it will heal the allied creature that is the most damaged for the amount of its Heal value at the end of its turn on the Battle Line. If there are multiple creatures that are equally damaged, it heals the one closest to the beginning of the battle line. If the creature bearing the Heal ability dies during combat it is immediately discarded and no healing takes place

### Incite

This ability grants +2 Attack to allied creatures immediately adjacent to the creature bearing the Incite ability.

### Inspire

When a creature with Inspire is in play it grants +2 Attack to the ally at the front of the Battle Line.

### Invulnerability

A creature with Invulnerability can’t be damaged. This is typically a temporary effect granted by a spell.

### Loremaster

This ability grants +2 Attack and +2 Life to all allied creatures equipped with artifacts.

### Machinist

When a creature with Machinist is equipped with an artifact it gains its Machinist value as + Attack and + Life.

### Mindless

A creature with the Mindless ability cannot equip artifacts.

### Plague Bearer

Enemies attacked by a creature with Plague bearer gain Pestilence, which destroys them on the next turn.

### Reanimate

When a creature with Reanimate is destroyed the first time after being played, it returns to the end of its controller’s Battle Line at the end of the turn.

### Reaper

When a creature bearing the Reaper ability attacks it deals damage equal to its Reaper value to the creatures adjacent to the battle line slot it is attacking, in addition to dealing its normal attack damage to either the opposing creature or player.

### Refresh

When a creature with Refresh is summoned, heal all damage on the most damaged allied creature. If more than one creature is equally damaged, heal the one closest to the start of the Battle Line.

### Regen

A creature with Regen heals its Regen value at the end of each turn.

### Regen Aura

All Allies of a creature with Regen Aura heal 1 at the end of each turn.

### Rider's Might

When another Rider ally is summoned a creature with Rider’s Might gains +1 Life.

### Sabotage

When a creature with Sabotage is in play, destroy an enemy artifact at the end of each turn. If the enemy has no artifacts, Sabotage has no effect.

### Shield

A creature with Shield is Invulnerable during the turn it is summoned. Any damage dealt to it is reduced to zero.

### Skirmish

When a creature with Skirmish attacks it gains its Skirmish value in Attack when attacking an enemy Creature or Warlord.

### Soothsay

Each turn the strongest enemy creature loses its next attack. If there is more than one enemy creature with the same attack value, the one closest to the start of the Battle Line loses its attack.

### Soul Drain

When a creature bearing Soul Drain is in play it heals its Soul Drain value whenever another enemy or ally is destroyed. This effect occurs immediately when the enemy or ally is destroyed.

### Storm

When a creature bearing the Storm ability comes into play it immediately deals its attack value in damage to any opposing creature on the opponent’s battle line. If there is no creature opposing the creature being summoned, it deals its attack value in damage to the opponent.

### Swarm

When a creature bearing the Swarm ability is in play it gains its Swarm value in Attack for each adjacent Ally creature. If an adjacent creature is killed, it immediately loses the Swarm bonus provided by that creature and its Attack is reduced accordingly.

### Techlord

This ability grants +2 Attack to the creature bearing the ability for each artifact attached to allied creatures.

### Templar's Wrath

Each turn deal 1 damage to the enemy opposite the creature with Templar’s Wrath for each other Templar ally on the Battle Line.

### Undead Hunger

A creature with Undead Hunger gains +1 Attack for each other Undead ally in play on the Battle Line.

### Vengeance

When a creature with Vengeance is killed it deals its Vengeance value in damage to the opposing creature before it is discarded. If the opposing creature is also being discarded, Vengeance has no effect. If there are no creatures opposing the creature with Vengeance, Vengeance has no effect.

### Warrior's Oath

When a creature with Warrior’s Oath is in play, all other Allied creatures of the Warrior type gain +1 Attack.

## 4.2 Special Rules

### The Endless Serpent

The Endless Serpent comes into play when three allied creatures with Gatekeeper are on a player’s Battle Line. When the third creature with Gatekeeper enters play, the three allies and any attached artifacts are discarded and all cards are shifted down the Battle Line to make room in the first three slots. Those three slots are filled with the Endless Serpent’s head, body, and second head, respectively. Any damage dealt to any section of the Endless Serpent is counted against the body section’s health. The Endless Serpent is Mindless and artifacts can not be played on it. When the Endless Serpent’s life reaches zero, it is not shuffled into the Discard pile, but is instead set aside in case of another summoning.

### Ice Block

This ability is only used by Frowny the Snowman. At the end of each turn create a Wall of Ice in the first empty space on the opponent’s battle line. The Wall of Ice prevents creatures from shifting up in the Battle Line beyond that space at the end of the combat round. Before the combat section of the next Battle phase begins, remove the Wall of Ice and leave an empty slot in the opponent’s Battle Line.

### Melt

This ability is only used by the Wall of Ice, generated by Frowny the Snowman’s Ice Block ability. Before the combat phase of the next battle begins, remove the Wall of Ice from your opponent’s Battle Line, leaving an empty slot.

### The Omega Rabbit

When an Enchanted Bunny is on the Battle Line, it is the only target eligible for the Carrot of Power artifact. If there is more than one Enchanted Bunny in play on a players Battle Line, the first Enchanted Bunny in line must be the target of the Carrot of Power. When the Carrot of Power is played on the Enchanted Bunny, the target Enchanted Bunny card is removed from the game and replaced by the Omega Rabbit. The Omega Rabbit will keep the Carrot of Power attached and gains the benefits from it. If the Omega Rabbit is destroyed, it is shuffled into the Discard pile with the Carrot of Power and may be re-summoned as the Omega Rabbit should it be drawn in subsequent rounds. The only limit to the number of Omega Rabbits a player may have in their deck is the number of Enchanted Bunnies they can transform.

### Terrify

This ability is only used by the Surly Scarecrow. When a creature with Terrify is in play, one random opponent creature loses its ability to attack at the beginning of each Battle round. This creature deals no damage to its opponent but may still receive damage.